# Bioregions of eastern Brazil based on vascular plant occurrence data

The geographical division of the earth into meaningful biodiversity units (e.g., biomes, areas of endemism, ecoregions or bioregions) is a necessary step for the study of biodiversity and its conservation. Eastern Brazil harbors a very high amount of earth’s terrestrial biodiversity in a geographically complex area. Delimitation of biogeographical areas for Eastern Brazil has relied on the simultaneous use of biotic (animal and plant distributions and vegetation physiognomy) and abiotic factors, often without an explicit methodology. Here we take advantage of the availability of large vascular plant specimens data, the existence of a well curated taxonomy for the plants that occur in the area, and the emergence of new biogeographic tools in order to identify bioregions (i.e., i.e. geographic areas which contain similar taxa) of eastern Brazil. To provide a classification scheme suitable to studies involving different lineages regarding dispersion, species richness and endemism across eastern Brazil, we provide three levels of grouping. The data set analyzed in this study included similar figures of species richness across the eastern Brazilian biomes to the recent taxonomic synthesis of the Brazilian flora. Maps of richness and endemism are provided for the region, and confirms previously known highly diverse/endemic regions of eastern Brazil across both coastal (Serra do Mar and Mantiqueira) and inland mountain ranges (Campos Rupestres), as well as in southern Bahia. The first network analysis divided eastern Brazil into 10 bioregions, which were clustered in five super-bioregions and divided in 23 sub-bioregions, in the two additional network analyses. The super-bioregions were divided into Southern Atlantic Forest/Paraná Forests, Northern Atlantic Forest, Espinhaço/Mantiqueira, Cerrado, and Caatinga/Diamantina. To some extent, these areas present some congruence with biomes, where a major deviation is the Espinhaço/Mantiqueira super-bioregion, while the Caatinga/Diamantina super-bioregion presented the highest congruence. Comparisons of species richness, endemism and overlapping of the bioregions with other three classifications (biomes, ecoregions and biogeographical provinces) are presented. 

The shapefile of the recovered bioregions is available [here](https://github.com/mreginato/EBR_Bioregions/blob/master/EBR_bioregions.zip) for public use.

